[Music]
With a series of performances rich in
Vietnam's modern folk identity, single
Fun Miti has won twice a sing Asia's
2025 preliminary stages. She surpassed
nearly 30 contestants from across Asia
to become one of the five artists
advancing to the grand finale.
The seamless fusion of traditional
melodies and contemporary arrangements
makes her a breakout star of the
competition, drawing attention from
international audiences.
I feel proud to sing Vietnamese songs,
especially those rich in our culture and
literature. I believe music is a bridge
that connects me with audiences
everywhere, including international
friends. For example, when I performed
The judges and other contestants might
not have understood the lyrics, but they
could still feel the emotion, the
melodies, the phrasing, and the way I
carried the notes. And that touched
their hearts. It made them wonder, "What
is this song about?
She's like a living instrument." At the
beginning and right before the climax,
there were those coral sections that
felt incredibly traditional.
Those moment made the entire performance
even more immersive.
It was stunning. It's like magical
branding. The traditional Vietnamese
sounds with the modern electronic thous.
[Music]
from Malaysia. Here, Fuichi is so
talented. Her voice really beautiful and
crystal clear.
Huang Mii is seriously impressive. The
most interesting contestant on the show
so far. She can pit dolphin high notes
and even writes her own lyrics and
music.
[Music]
Beyond simply introducing traditional
Vietnamese music, in the dual battle of
semifinal round one in Shanghai, Fiti
and music producers DTAP brought
Vietnamese opera or Kaung and Chinese
opera Shiu together on an international
stage. In a special duet with Chinese
singer, the two traditional art forms
lit up the stage, telling stories
through music like a vivid and
culturally rich dialogue.
[Music]
[Applause]
Earlier in the show, I mentioned how
much I admire and want to work with
Huang Ni, even be her friend. After this
collaboration, I love her even more.
On this journey, we're honored to work
alongside Film Mici in showcasing
Vietnam's traditional music. It's
something unique that can truly wow
everyone.
[Music]
For Fiti, traditional music is in a new
direction. It's a path she's been
devoted to for the past 12 years. From a
10year-old girl singing folk songs on
the Voice Kids Vietnam to her album
Flying Stock Universe, which fuses
Vietnamese literature with folk sounds
from three regions in a fronica or
electronic folk style. Her commitment
has remained unwavering. More recently,
she surprised audiences by incorporating
voice singing, a centuries old
Vietnamese classical theater, into her
performance in a music reality show,
helping bring this traditional art form
closer to younger audiences.
[Music]
For me, boy singing wasn't the hard
part. I've always had a deep passion for
traditional art forms. As soon as I
heard it, I could feel it and could sing
along. The real challenge was presenting
his visual spirit on stage. It is not my
specialty. So, I studied closely with
artist,
learning about custom details, head
gear, and feather accessories so I could
portray it as authentically as possible.
People will want to learn more about boy
singing and discover how vibrant and
dazzling it can be on stage.
From her Fukronica album to domestic
music shows and now making waves across
Asia, Fungiti source like a kite powered
by the winds of cultural tradition.
Through her performances, she expresses
the voice of her generation and shows
the world the emotional resonance of
Vietnamese music.
[Music]
[Applause]